Now that we've seen some examples of how
you can kinda build something that's
less than trivial in LevelDB,
I wanna talk about some of the libraries
that are available in
the ecosystem of NPM.
And sort of what some good
design principles are for
using those libraries and
also building your own libraries.
Because this, I think, one of the biggest
strengths of LevelDB is its quite
vast ecosystem of packages
that you can find on NPM,
hundreds of packages to
do all kinds of stuff.
The first one is called subleveldown.
There's actually another package called
sublevel that you might also see and
they do pretty much the same thing.
I like this one a little better.
But you can use whichever one you like.
So what subleveldown lets
you do is it lets you
organize your key space into sublevels.
So just like we were doing with our
posts with these kinds of key prefixes,
so subleveldown,
it can take care of that for you.
But it builds a new
dummy database instance,
where it's going to automatically prepend
a certain key prefix onto your namespace.
This is really useful if you wanna
take a single database on disk and
farm out different sort of
namespaces of that database
into other packages that do things.
So that they don't have to worry
about stepping on each other's toes,
writing to the same keys,
that kinda stuff.
So just as an example for
what that looks like,
we can write a quick little
demo using subleveldown.
First thing you can do is require
subleveldown after you npm install it, so
you do subleveldown.
And so
you set up your LevelDB like normal and
create an instance called sub.db,
maybe without a value encoding this time.
And then you can create separate
databases that have a prefix.
So how that works is
that you can do sublevel.
You give I think the DB as
the first argument, and
then you give the prefix
name as the second argument.
So we'll be pretty unoriginal,
call them a and b.
And now, just to show you that, in fact,
these are separate namespaces,
we'll try to write to the same key.
So adb.put, count,
and we'll just kind of do
the same little count demo, but
maybe we'll have two counts
that go at the same time.
So maybe one of our counters
will increment by ten and
the other increment by one just so
we can see that they're separate, okay?
So our adb.get, and then we can do
adb.put('count', (value or 0)+1.
And just like before,
I meant to save that to a variable.
So you put that value in,
and then we can log it out.
So ('a:count', n),
do the same thing for b.
So all I need to do is replace adb with b,
and then we should have
two counters that operate in
their own little namespaces.
So now if I run this program,
we see 1, 11.
First of all, they're strings,
which is pretty funny.
Because we're not using
the value encoding,
we have to actually convert those
two numbers if we wanna use them.
The second thing is that I meant
to increment them differently.
So here we're gonna add one to one of
them and the other one we'll add ten.
So that ought to fix it.
Yeah, here we go, so 112, 121, 113,
131, works like we would expect.
So behind the scenes, subleveldown is
just doing the same kind of trick with
a delimiter and a prefix, and
it's formatting these namespaces for us.
But what's cool is that if you're
dealing with a sublevel, you don't have
to worry as much about formatting
the greater than and less than queries.
Because you're only gonna get data
that exists inside of that namespace.